
Class : 

Class is a set or category of things having some property or attribute in common and differentiated from others by kind, type, or quality.

In technical terms we can say that class is a blue print for individual objects with exact behaviour.

Object :

object is one of instances of the class. which can perform the functionalities which are defined in the class.

self :

self represents the instance of the class. By using the "self" keyword we can access the attributes and methods of the class in python.

__init__ :

"__init__" is a reseved method in python classes. It is known as a constructor in object oriented concepts. This method called when an object is created from the class and it allow the class to initialize the attributes of a class.

id is not a keyword in Python, but it is the name of a built-in function.

The keywords are:

and       del       from      not       while
as        elif      global    or        with
assert    else      if        pass      yield
break     except    import    print
class     exec      in        raise
continue  finally   is        return
def       for       lambda    try

id(object) -- it is an inbuilt function
Return the “identity” of an object. This is an integer which is guaranteed to be unique and constant for this object during its lifetime. Two objects with non-overlapping lifetimes may have the same id() value.

CPython implementation detail: This is the address of the object in memory.

The syntax of next() is:

next(iterator, default)
next() Parameters
iterator - next() retrieves next item from the iterator
default (optional) - this value is returned if the iterator is exhausted (no items left)
Return Value from next()
The next() returns the next item from the iterator.

If the iterator is exhausted, it returns default value (if provided).

If the default parameter is omitted and iterator is exhausted, it raises StopIteration
In simple words, the filter() method filters the given iterable with the help of a function that tests each element in the iterable to be true or not.

The syntax of filter() method is:

filter(function, iterable)
filter() Parameters
The filter() method takes two parameters:

function - function that tests if elements of an iterable returns true or false
If None, the function defaults to Identity function - which returns false if any elements are false
iterable - iterable which is to be filtered, could be sets, lists, tuples, or containers of any iterators
Return value from filter()
The filter() method returns an iterator that passed the function check for each element in the iterable.


lambda arguments: expression
Lambda functions can have any number of arguments but only one expression. The expression is evaluated and returned. Lambda functions can be used wherever function objects are required.

List is a collection which is ordered and changeable. Allows duplicate members.
Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. Allows duplicate members.
Set is a collection which is unordered and unindexed. No duplicate members.
Dictionary is a collection which is unordered, changeable and indexed. No duplicate members.